This is the README file for ex3modules, a collection of makefiles for
building and installing a variety of software packages together with
Environment Modules scripts (see http://modules.sourceforge.net/).
Such scripts are typically used to manage software on supercomputing
clusters.

  Copyright (C) 2020 James D. Trotter

  Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
  are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
  notice and this notice are preserved.


ex3modules has been used to install software on eX3, a national
Experimental Infrastructure for Exploration of Exascale Computing at
Simula Research Laboratory, Norway.  For more information, see
https://www.ex3.simula.no.

Usage
-----
Packages are built and installed with `ex3modules'. The installation
directory is configured by passing the option `--prefix'. Here is an
example:

     ex3modules --prefix=${HOME}/ex3modules

Further customisation is possible by passing options `--pkgsrcdir',
`--pkgdir' and `--modulefilesdir' to choose directories for package
sources, installed packages, and Environment Modules scripts,
respectively.

By default, all available packages are built. Otherwise, individual
packages can be built by supplying their names on the command-line,
for example:

     ex3modules --prefix=${HOME}/ex3modules ncurses-6.1

The option `--list-packages' is used to show a list of available
packages:

     ex3modules --list-packages

Once packages have been built and installed, they can be made
available through the Environment Modules system. Following the
example above, packages installed in `${HOME}/ex3modules' are made
available with the command:

     module use ${HOME}/ex3modules/modulefiles

The module `ncurses-6.1', for example, can now be loaded with the
command:

     module load ncurses-6.1


As an alternative, packages can be built and installed using `make'
directly, instead of using the `ex3modules' program. Installation
directories, such as `prefix' are provided as program options, as in
the following example:

     make prefix=${HOME}/ex3modules ncurses-6.1


Copying
-------
ex3modules is free software. See the file COPYING for copying
conditions.
